- [Instructor] So, now that we've discussed
what a digital signature is and how to use it,
let's go write some code to create
a digital signature for ourselves.
I'd like you to jump into the IDE,
and the first thing I want you to take a look at
is in source main resources, I've created a file for you.
This happens to be the Constitution of the United States,
and we're going to use that
and actually create a digital signature for this file
as we progress throughout this video.
Go ahead and shut that down,
and I'd like for you to create a new package,
Com.frankmoley.crypto signature.
And in that signature package,
I'd like you to create a new Java class,
and we're going to call that DigitalSignatureUtils.
I'm gonna shrink this out here
so we can take a look at the code a little easier.
Now, like we've done a couple times before,
I would like you to create a private static final string,
and we're going to call this Signing Algorithm,
and we will set that value to SHA256withRSA.
So, we're going to do a SHA256 hash
and an RSA 4096 signature.
Now that that's done, let's go ahead and actually
implement our method to create the digital signature.
We are going to start with a byte array
for our input and then a Private Key,
and we will throw an Exception.
Go ahead and import that private key there
and start open our method.
We're gonna start by getting an instance
of a signature object from signature.getinstance,
passing it in our Signing Algorithm.
Now, on the signature object, we are going to call initSign
and we will pass at the Private Key.
We will then do a signature.update and in the update method,
we are actually gonna pass it in our input.
And finally, we will return a signature.sign call.
And that will return our byte array
that we are going to use.
Now, digital signatures only work if you can validate them,
so we are going to create a boolean method
called verifyDigitalSignature, and it's gonna look
very similar as far as the arguments to our previous example
with the exception that we're gonna take another byte array
called signatureToVerify and the Public Key
instead of the Private Key, which again,
should make sense based on the
way that digital signatures work.
So once again, we'll get an instance
of our signature object from Signature.getInstance,
passing it in the Signing Algorithm.
Make sure that you do these throws Exception here,
and once again, we will do an init, only this time,
instead of initSign, we're gonna do
initVerify and pass at the Public Key.
We will go ahead and call update again
and pass at our input, and then,
we will simply return signature.verify,
and we will pass into it the actual
signature that we wanna verify,
and that's all there is to it.
Let's go ahead and create a test.
I'm gonna, once again, have my IDE create the test for me.
This time, I'm actually not gonna select any methods,
and in this test class, I'm gonna create
an annotation for @Test, and I will do a void method
called digitalSignatureRoutine,
and I will allow that to throw an Exception,
and now we're actually gonna implement it.
So, the first thing that I wanna do
is I wanna get the uri of that file that we just dealt with,
so we're gonna create an instance of the URL object,
and we're gonna load it from the class loader.
So this time, getClass.getClassLoader.getResource,
and the resource is named demo.txt.
So that should get the URL of that file,
now we'll create a path object,
and we're gonna take that URL
and actually get the uri from it.
Go ahead and import our paths here.
Now, we're gonna do a byte array of our input,
and we will use the file's API to read all bytes,
passing in the path.
So now, we've got an input element that we can actually
go sign, so now we can actually do our real work.
So, we'll create an instance of a keyPair,
and we're going to leverage our
aAymmetricEncryptionUtils to do that
to generate an RSA Key Pair.
And now, we're gonna create our actual signature.
So our signature will come from
our DigitalSignatureUtils.createDigitalSignature.
We'll pass at the input and the
Private Key from the Key Pair.
Now that we have our signature, let's go ahead
and do a System.out.println on it
using the DataTypeConverters again to print a HexBinary,
that way you can actually see that it's a signed hash.
Now, let's go ahead and do an assertTrue,
and what we're gonna do is here is we're going to
call into our DigitalSignatureUtils.verifyDigitalSignature.
We will pass at our original input, our signature,
and then our KeyPair.getPublic, in this case,
and we would expect that to return true.
Now, while I'm running this, I just wanna talk
a little bit about what we're doing here in our verify.
In the real world, a separate system would actually
be reloading that input and then calling it in to verify,
but you'll see that we actually passed as expected,
and we got a nice output of the
hexadecimal representation of the signature
that you can scroll across here and take a look at.
And that's all there is to creating digital signatures,
and I hope that you find use for this
in your everyday work in the real world.